---
layout: post
date: 2017-4-9
link: link
title: 'think'
category:
- 
tags:
---
“People do not like to think. If one thinks, one must reach conclusions. Conclusions are not always pleasant.” -Helen Keller

Why are conclusions sometimes unpleasant?

In February of 2013 I made a significant change in my life. The change came from thinking; reaching a conclusion; then acting. It was the single biggest decision I had ever made. The impact was felt in every single part of my life. My children were impacted. My extended family was impacted. My wife was impacted. My co-workers, friends and even my old highschool facebook friends were impacted.

I had decided to end my membership in the Mormon church after 42 years.

Friends I hadn’t heard from in 20 years reached out to me as if I had lost a child. I thought one of them was talking about a terrible experience I had last year where I came within seconds of losing my boy. My friend didn’t know about that. When he found out, he let me know that my spiritual death I had brought on myself from leaving the church was worse. I think Hellen Keller may suggest that he think a little bit about that and maybe he would come to a different conclusion.

Extended family, sisters and even my mother struggled to connect. Avoidance was easier than thinking in their case. Simple, quick conclusions were enough for them.

Truth be told, it has been 4 years since I left. Tragedy has been part of my life. Pain has been part of it too. However, the happiness of that choice is felt on a daily basis. The sheer joy of going from “knowing the answers to life and my existence” to “not knowing but discovering anew every day” is difficult to put into words.

I did some thinking. I made some conclusions. I think that if I just keep doing that process over and over, I can’t help but grow a little each time. It isn’t pleasant sometimes but it has always been worth it.